Description	
Please always check http://research.baycrest.org/~jimmy/NIfTI for detail descriptions and latest updates.

If you are confused by the Left / Right of an ANALYZE image, you can consult http://research.baycrest.org/~jimmy/UseANALYZE.htm

You may also want to read http://research.baycrest.org/~jimmy/NIfTI/FAQ.htm

Basic Programs:

1. load_untouch_header_only.m: Load only the header section of
NIfTI or ANALYZE file. The input file will be automatically
detected. NIfTI structure will be returned for NIfTI file, and
ANALYZE structure will be returned for ANALYZE file.

2. load_nii.m: Load N-Dimensional NIfTI file (where N can be from 3
to 7) or ANALYZE file (where N can be from 3 to 4), and apply
header info (e.g. affine geometric transform, voxel intensity
scaling, etc.) to the data. If your file has more than 3-Dimension
(e.g. time series etc.), you can also specify a range to extract
only 1 or several volumes.

3. save_nii.m: Save N-Dimensional NIfTI structure (where N can be
from 3 to 7) that is loaded by "load_nii.m" or made by "make_nii.m"
into a NIfTI file.

4. make_nii.m: Make N-Dimensional NIfTI structure (where N can be
from 3 to 7) based on the N-Dimensional matrix and other optional
parameters (e.g. voxel_size, origin, etc.). Using "save_nii"
command, the NIfTI structure that is made by "make_nii" can be
saved into a NIfTI file.

5. make_ana.m: Make 3D ANALYZE structure based on the 3D matrix and
other optional parameters (e.g. voxel_size, origin, etc.). Using
"save_untouch_nii" command, the ANALYZE structure that is made by
"make_ana" can be saved into an ANALYZE file in order to be
compatible with some ANALYZE only programs.

6. reslice_nii.m: Re-sample 3D (or 4D) NIfTI file, or ANALYZE file
with affine matrix M in .mat file, and save the re-sampled data
into a new NIfTI file. The program will base on the affine matrix,
which is especially useful for oblique images with non-orthogonal
rotation or shearing that cannot be loaded with "load_nii.m". You
can also specify voxel_size, etc. It will not cause negative
effect, as long as you remember not to do slice time correction
after using "reslice_nii.m".

7. clip_nii.m: Clip the volume(s) in NIfTI structure from any of
the six sides, while keeping the originator, voxel size, data type,
and description unchanged. The program is especially useful after
you use reslice_nii, since the new volume is padded with a lot of
empty voxels.

8. view_nii.m: View & Edit 3D (or 4D) NIfTI or ANALYZE structure
that is loaded by "load_nii.m" or made by "make_nii.m". Activation
map, ROI, etc. can be overlaid on top of a background image (see
above picture). Plotted view can be embedded into your existing
figure window. If you use it as an individual program, it can also
edit the orientation and voxel value of the image, view volume
histogram, and save the modified image.

9. load_untouch_nii.m: Load N-Dimensional NIfTI file (where N can
be from 3 to 7) or ANALYZE file (where N can be from 3 to 4), but
do not apply any changes that are indicated in the header. WARNING:
Do not use "view_nii.m" to view the structure that is loaded by
"load_untouch_nii.m".

10. save_untouch_nii.m: Save N-Dimensional NIfTI structure (where N
can be from 3 to 7) or ANALYZE structure (where N can be from 3 to
4) that is loaded by "load_untouch_nii.m" or made by "make_ana.m"
into a new NIfTI or ANALYZE file. If you do not modify the loaded
dataset, the header and data in the new saved file should be the
same as those in the original file.

Other Programs:

1. collapse_nii_scan.m: Integrate multiple single-scan NIfTI or
ANALYZE files into a multiple-scan NIfTI file.

2. expand_nii_scan.m: Break a multiple-scan NIfTI file into
multiple single-scan NIfTI files.

3. save_untouch_slice.m: Save back to the original image with a
portion of slices that was loaded by load_untouch_nii. You can
process those slices matrix in any way, as long as their dimension
is not altered.

4. get_nii_frame.m: Return the number of time frames of a NIfTI
file.

5. flip_lr.m: Flip NIfTI or ANALYZE file Left-Right along the plane
across the originator, and save the L-R flipped data into a NIfTI
file. WARNING: Please use this program with caution, although you
can always flip it back.

6. load_nii_ext.m: Load header extension from a NIfTI file.

7. mat_into_hdr.m: Integrate affine matrix in old SPM .mat file
into its .hdr header file. Thus, the ANALYZE file is converted into
a NIfTI file with the updated .hdr header file.

Acknowledgements	Mri Analyze Tools inspired this file.

This file inspired Seconds To Hours, Minutes, Seconds, Composite
Image, Siemens Dicom Sort And Convert To N If Ti, Create Mosaic.M,
Field Mapping Toolbox, Function For Viewing Mri Slices, A Gui To
Load And View .Nii Files., Dicom To N If Ti Converter, Generate
Synthetic F Mri Data, Dicom To N If Ti Converter, Bipolar Colormap,
and Rapid: A Routine Assurance Pipeline For Imaging Of Diffusion.
